_events/fmas.md, before:

---
layout: event
title: "Formal Methods for Autonomous Systems Workshop"
date : 2019-10-11
image: https://autonomy-and-verification-uol.github.io/images/logos/FMAS-Logo.png
---


 <img alt="FMAS Workshop Logo" style="float: left; margin: 1em" src="{{site.images}}logos/FMAS-Logo.png">


This one day workshop will bring together researchers working on a range of techniques for formal verification of autonomous systems, 
to present recent work in the area, discuss key difficulties, and stimulate collaboration between the robotics and formal methods 
communities. This workshop will include invited speakers, contributed papers, experience reports, and a discussion panel.


## Scope

Autonomous -- and Robotic -- Systems present unique challenges for formal methods. They are embodied entities that can interact with 
the real world and make autonomous decisions. Amongst others, they can be viewed as safety-critical, cyber-physical, hybrid, and real-time systems. 
Key issues for formal methods applied to autonomous systems include capturing how the system will deal with a dynamic external environment 
and verification of the system's decision making capabilities -- including planning, ethical, and reconfiguration choices. Some autonomous 
systems require certification before deployment, others require public trust for wide adoption; both of these scenarios are being tackled 
by formal methods. 

The goals of this workshop are to bring together leading researchers in this area to present recent and ongoing work, including
experience reports and case studies as well as identify future directions for this emerging application of formal methods. 
This workshop is concerned with the use of formal methods to specify, model, or verify autonomous or robotic systems; in whole or in part. 
Submissions may focus on case studies that identify the challenges for formal methods in this area, or experience reports that provide guidelines
for tackling these challenges. Work using integrated formal methods, or describing the future directions of this field, are particularly welcome.

## Programme Information

The workshop will feature invited speakers (to be confirmed) and presentations of accepted papers. The workshop will also feature a discussion panel for a structured, whole-group conversation for scoping the future directions of formal methods for autonomous systems. 

## Submission Information

There are two categories of submission:

* **Short** papers -- **6 pages**
* **Long** papers -- **15 pages**

Topics of interest include (but are not limited to):

* Experience reports/case studies on applying formal methods to autonomous and/or robotic systems
* Novel formal methods that can be applied to autonomous and/or robotic systems
* The modification of existing formal methods to suit autonomous and/or robotic systems
* Future directions for formal methods for autonomous and/or robotic systems

Submission will be via [easychair](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=fmas2019), in LNCS format.
Details about the **LNCS format** can be found on the [Springer Authors Guidelines page](https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines)

Each submission will receive at least three, single-blind reviews. If a paper is accepted, at least one of the authors must attend the workshop to
present their work. Revised selected papers will be published in the upcoming FM 2019 Workshops LNCS volume.

## Important Dates

* **Submission: 30th June  2019**
* Notification: 31st July 2019
* Final Version due: 1st September 2019
* Workshop: 11th of October 2019 (at [Formal Methods 2019](http://formalmethods2019.inesctec.pt/))

## Chairs

<article class="row">
  <section class="columns large-4" markdown="1">
 [Marie Farrell](http://cgi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~marie/), University of Liverpool, UK
</section>
  <section class="columns large-4" markdown="1">
  [Michael Fisher](https://cgi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~michael/), University of Liverpool, UK
</section>
  <section class="columns large-4" markdown="1">
  [Matt Luckcuck](https://cgi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~mattlck/), University of Liverpool, UK
</section>
</article>

## Program Committee

* Mikael Asplund, Linkoping University 
* Matthew Bradbury. University of Warwick
* Jérémie Guiochet, University of Toulouse
* Rob Hierons, University of Sheffield
* Taylor Johnson, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
* Bruno Lacerda, Oxford University
* Sven Linker, University of Liverpool
* Tiziana Margaria, University of Limerick
* Alice Miller, University of Glasgow
* Alvaro Miyazawa, University of York
* Kristin Rozier, University of Iowa
* Marija Slavkovik, University of Bergen
* James Stovold, Swansea University
* Silvia Lizeth Tapia Tarifa, University of Oslo
* Hao Wu, Maynooth University

Commit message:

Adding Claudio to the invited Speaker list

_events/fmas.md, after:

---
layout: event
title: "Formal Methods for Autonomous Systems Workshop"
date : 2019-06-04
image: https://autonomy-and-verification-uol.github.io/images/logos/FMAS-Logo.png
---

 <img alt="FMAS Workshop Logo" style="float: left; margin: 1em" src="{{site.images}}logos/FMAS-Logo.png">


This one day workshop will bring together researchers working on a range of techniques for formal verification of autonomous systems,
to present recent work in the area, discuss key difficulties, and stimulate collaboration between the robotics and formal methods
communities. This workshop will include invited speakers, contributed papers, experience reports, and a discussion panel.


## Scope

Autonomous -- and Robotic -- Systems present unique challenges for formal methods. They are embodied entities that can interact with
the real world and make autonomous decisions. Amongst others, they can be viewed as safety-critical, cyber-physical, hybrid, and real-time systems.
Key issues for formal methods applied to autonomous systems include capturing how the system will deal with a dynamic external environment
and verification of the system's decision making capabilities -- including planning, ethical, and reconfiguration choices. Some autonomous
systems require certification before deployment, others require public trust for wide adoption; both of these scenarios are being tackled
by formal methods.

The goals of this workshop are to bring together leading researchers in this area to present recent and ongoing work, including
experience reports and case studies as well as identify future directions for this emerging application of formal methods.
This workshop is concerned with the use of formal methods to specify, model, or verify autonomous or robotic systems; in whole or in part.
Submissions may focus on case studies that identify the challenges for formal methods in this area, or experience reports that provide guidelines
for tackling these challenges. Work using integrated formal methods, or describing the future directions of this field, are particularly welcome.

## Programme Information

The workshop will feature invited speakers and presentations of accepted papers. The workshop will also feature a discussion panel for a structured, whole-group conversation for scoping the future directions of formal methods for autonomous systems.

### Invited speakers

Our confirmed invited speakers are:

* [Claudio Menghi](https://claudiomenghi.github.io/index.html) whose research interests include the Engineering of Robotic Systems and has previous work using formal methods in this area.

## Submission Information

There are two categories of submission:

* **Short** papers -- **6 pages**
* **Long** papers -- **15 pages**

Topics of interest include (but are not limited to):

* Experience reports/case studies on applying formal methods to autonomous and/or robotic systems
* Novel formal methods that can be applied to autonomous and/or robotic systems
* The modification of existing formal methods to suit autonomous and/or robotic systems
* Future directions for formal methods for autonomous and/or robotic systems

Submission will be via [easychair](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=fmas2019), in LNCS format.
Details about the **LNCS format** can be found on the [Springer Authors Guidelines page](https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines)

Each submission will receive at least three, single-blind reviews. If a paper is accepted, at least one of the authors must attend the workshop to
present their work. Revised selected papers will be published in the upcoming FM 2019 Workshops LNCS volume.

## Important Dates

* **Submission: 30th June  2019**
* Notification: 31st July 2019
* Final Version due: 1st September 2019
* Workshop: 11th of October 2019 (at [Formal Methods 2019](http://formalmethods2019.inesctec.pt/))

## Chairs

<article class="row">
  <section class="columns large-4" markdown="1">
 [Marie Farrell](http://cgi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~marie/), University of Liverpool, UK
</section>
  <section class="columns large-4" markdown="1">
  [Michael Fisher](https://cgi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~michael/), University of Liverpool, UK
</section>
  <section class="columns large-4" markdown="1">
  [Matt Luckcuck](https://cgi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~mattlck/), University of Liverpool, UK
</section>
</article>

## Program Committee

* Mikael Asplund, Linkoping University
* Matthew Bradbury. University of Warwick
* Jérémie Guiochet, University of Toulouse
* Rob Hierons, University of Sheffield
* Taylor Johnson, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
* Bruno Lacerda, Oxford University
* Sven Linker, University of Liverpool
* Tiziana Margaria, University of Limerick
* Alice Miller, University of Glasgow
* Alvaro Miyazawa, University of York
* Kristin Rozier, University of Iowa
* Marija Slavkovik, University of Bergen
* James Stovold, Swansea University
* Silvia Lizeth Tapia Tarifa, University of Oslo
* Hao Wu, Maynooth University
